[WRONG WRONG] There is an interesting thing about English that almost nobody thinks about.
There are two TH sounds. And if you want to know why I have this again 21 times
had to ... [GELACH]
And if you want to know why I had to repeat this 22 times, try them
to reverse yourself.
The difference is intonation: you who let your vocal chords vibrate. The vocal cords
are small flaps of mucous membrane that are in your larynx.
So. Sit upright, and place your thumb and your fingers gently on your throat like this. You
You do not have to sit up straight here, but it's a good exercise.
Now make a / s / sound, as in the beginning of 'sing'. Ready? 'Sssss'. You would not do anything
must feel.
But now try a / z /. Ready? 'Zzzzz'. Feel
you that vibration? 'Zzz' Try to switch between the two: Ssszzsszz. You can feel that it is on and
goes out. That vibration is your vocal chords that flutter around.
If you do a quick search on the internet, you can be glorious slow-motion
see videos of vocal cords. Honestly, it makes me crazy. But it leaves
see how much incredible control you have about those things, without knowing it. If
you hit a good C, [hummm], not like this, you can do them 261 times a second
let it open and close, without thinking about it.
[Whispering] Sometimes you stop completely with intonation. Or [KRAKEND] you can
limiting and slowing down to make a creaking voice. That has to do with the "vocal fry" phenomenon
that irritates a lot of people?
So, two different sounds - / s / and / z / - get two different letters.
But now try it with TH. Start with th, as in
think. Ready? 'TH'. Nothing. And now, th, as in then. Ready? 'TH'.
That is the vibration again. 'TH'; 'TH'; 'TH'; 'TH'. Exactly the same difference as S and Z
but these two sounds are written with the same two letters.
But English has a lot of weirdness like that, hey. It sounds simple enough? S for the
/ s / without intonation, Z for the / z / with intonation. Well no. Believing that would be unwise. The
depths of how intonation slips and glides between consonants is better for a textbook and
a university teacher because it is very complicated.
But, as a start to get you thinking, let me say this: the difference between
"bob" and "pop" is intonation. So here is something you can try to find out:
where does your intonation go on and off with the word "pop"? Because in most dialects that O is pronounced: like
"mom and pop store". So think about the exact timing needed so that you say "pop" and
not "bop" or "pob"
And then forget about it. Because your brains are all self-sufficient.
[Translated by David Kooren, Sven Mol, and others]